This is the README file of the `CTIE' distribution, version 1.1
---------------------------------------------------------------

CTIE is based on the `TIE' program, a program which was first
developed to allow WEB programmers to use more than one change file
with their WEB programs.

CWEB introduced a new command, @i, to handle "include files".  The
original TIE program was not designed to handle this situation, and so
could not be used for all CWEB programs.  CTIE behaves essentially
identically to the original TIE, and identical results will be
generated when TIE is applied to traditional WEB files with changes,
as long as there are no errors.  (Errors may lead to different output,
but then the errors need correcting, anyway.)

CTIE can be used to either create a new version of the (C)WEB file
which incorporates the changes, or to merge multiple change files into
a single change file.  This program does not depend in an essential
way on any special WEB dialect, nor on using WEB at all, as the only
controls to be interpreted are the change requests in the change files
(delimited by @x, @y and @z) and file include commands (indicated by @i).
This makes `CTIE' also usable for any other language, or even
data files.  See the documentation ctiedoc.tex and the example file
ctie.tie for more information.


REQUIREMENTS:

This version of `CTIE' is written in CWEB.  To preprocess and compile
the source you will need a working `ctangle'.  A pretangled ctie.c is
supplied if you do not have a working ctangle available.

Please note, that the CWEB by Silvio Levy and Donald E. Knuth must
probably be at least at version 2.8, to process and compile `ctie'
without problems.

Furthermore, a ctie-k.ch file is provided which links ctie against
Karl Berry's kpathsea library.  A tangled version of this file is
provided as ctie-k.c.  To use this, you will need to link against
version 3.4.5 or higher of the kpathsea library.  This version
searches for files, both from the command line and included (@i) files
using the CWEBINPUTS search path.


DISTRIBUTION:

This package has been uploaded to CTAN, and appears in the directory
web/c_cpp/ctie/.


LICENCE:

This program is based on tie.w and common.w (part of CWEB).  It is
distributed with the following licence.

Copyright (c) 2002,2003 by Julian Gilbey
All rights reserved.

This program is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, express or implied.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
program provided that the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
program under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.


BUGS/ENHANCEMENTS:

If you detect bugs in the implementation of CTIE or have suggestions
to enhance functionality or improve portability, please send a message
to Julian Gilbey <jdg@debian.org>.
