			INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS

gsftopk is primarily intended for sites using xdvi and dvips; it allows them
to use PostScript fonts with xdvi.  While there is nothing to prevent this
program from being used in other contexts, doing so would be difficult for
non-expert users.

To install gsftopk, use the following steps.

1.  You _must_ have ghostscript 2.5.2 (or higher) installed on your system.

2.  It is recommended that you also have dvips installed; however, expert
    users can read the more detailed instructions at the end of this file
    to find out how to run without dvips.

3.  Make sure that the gsftopk directory is installed in the kpathsea
    tools hierarchy: we assume that there is a ../kpathsea directory (as is
    distributed in the xdvi, dvips, or web2c distributions from Karl Berry).
    (If this is the case, then you can modify the installation in the top-level
    build directory to automatically build in the gsftopk directory when
    building the tools.)

4.  Run ./configure in this directory.  This will generate a Makefile.
    You may want to set some options when calling this script; see the
    file ../kpathsea/INSTALL for details.  There are no options specific
    to gsftopk.

5.  Type 'make install' to install the program, its manual page, and the
    render.ps file.

You should now be able to use PostScript fonts with xdvi.

--Paul Vojta, vojta@math.berkeley.edu


			NOTES FOR THE EXPERT

With a little extra work it is possible to install gsftopk without having
installed dvips.  All that is needed is to explain some of the makefile
variables and to describe the format of the file psfonts.map.

The CONFIGPATH is the directory where psfonts.map is to be stored.  It may
actually be a colon-separated list of paths, although only the first one
containing a file named ``psfonts.map'' is useful.

The HEADERDIR is the directory where the ``render.ps'' driver file is to
be stored; also it is a component of the HEADERPATH.  The HEADERPATH is a
colon-separated list of directories which are searched for files referenced
in the ``psfonts.map'' file.

Finally, the file ``psfonts.map'' should provide a information on how to access
each and every file gsftopk is to be expected to create.  Each line of that
file describes one font.  Each line consists of one or more fields, separated
by one or more tabs or spaces.  The first field is mandatory; it gives the
name by which TeX refers to the file.  Other fields are optional and are
order independent.  They are:

  o	The PS-name of the font.  If absent, it is the same as the TeX name.

  o	The file where the font is located.  This field is identified by
	preceding the file name with the character `<'.  If absent, it is
	assumed that the font is built-in to ghostscript.

  o	Special instructions for scaling the font.  This field is identified
	by enclosing it in quotes; it may therefore contains spaces.
	The field consists of PostScript instructions for modifying the font.
	Possibilities include "1.2 ExtendFont" to stretch the font horizontally
	by 20%, and ".3 SlantFont" to cause the letters to be slanted at a
	slope of .3.

The file may also contain comment lines.  These are blank lines, or lines
beginning with `;', `#', or `*'.

The following is a very abbreviated sample psfonts.map:

# Comment and blank lines are ignored.

Times-Roman
rptmr	Times-Roman
Optima	<Optima.pfb
Optima-Slanted Optima <Optima.pfb ".1944 SlantFont"
Optima-Condensed Optima <Optima.pfb ".82 ExtendFont"
Optima-Extended Optima <Optima.pfb "1.2 ExtendFont"
