Project ILX

1. What is ILX ?
   ILX is th abber of "Internationalized and Localized X-window system".
   Its main goal is to provid a internationalized and localized application
   envoriment for X-window system.

2. Why ILX ?
   The reason that UNIX like operation systems can't compitete with M$ Windows
   are that:
	a) UNIX like systems lack GUI applications which make non-programmers
	   diffcult to use.
	b) UNIX like systems are not internationalized nor localized enough
	   which makes it even harder for non-English speaking users to use
	   it.

3. What will ILX have ??
   ILX have three major steps, and for each major step there are some minor
   stages to be complete.
	Step 1. In the first step we have to make the more well avaliable 
		True Type font displayed by the X server. Most of easten fonts
		are provided by the font vendors in True Type font format. In
		order to provide a working True Type Font server we have to
		complete the fellowing stages:
		a) ttfdump: A true type font dumping program to explore the
		definition of a true type font.
		b) ttfshow: A true type font showing program to provide a test
		bed for true type font rasterization.
		c) fileview: Viewing a non ASCII file in the specified 
		encoding scheme. This program further explore the capacity of
		the ttf rasterizer.
		d) ttfedit: A true type font editor lets users to make their
		new true type fonts.(optional)
		e) ttfs: True Type Font Server, a font server comform to X11R6
		font server protocols which can provide rasterizing True Type
		fontsas well as other font format currently prrovided.

	Step 2. In the second step we have to provide a easily extened Input 
		an Output Server for localized characters to be inputed and 
		displayed.

	Step 3. In the third and final step we will provide a fully 
		internationalized and localized working enviroment, which 
		includes a CDE like desk top manamger, a document editor,
		or even other things like spreadsheet or database mananger.  